Now, you have some background on the goals and motivations of the blockchain.
Next, let's walk through how this is translated into
the actual components that have been built to make the system work.
These components are what's represented here in the blockchain framework.
We won't cover them in the exact order that listed here,
that order has more to do with how the system works together,
which we'll cover more once we've defined all the pieces.
Instead, we'll start with what we think are
the most fundamental pieces then work up to the more complex components.
With that said, we'll start this video with the topic of hashing.
In this video, we'll discuss hashing and the details of
a specific hashing function, SHA256.
A hash is a digital fingerprint for information.
It's a unique string of letters and numbers that represent a set of data.
To get a hash value,
you start with a bit of data and pass it through a hashing function.
The hashing function maps a group of that data to a unique hash value.
It will take in the information you give it and create a completely unique hash value.
This hash value now acts as a unique identifier for the original data.
This allows you to identify a given set of data
much more easily by referencing its hash value.
SHA256 is a specific hashing function.
SHA stands for Secure Hashing Algorithm and 256 represents the output of the algorithm.
In this case, it tells us that the number you'll get back as
a hash value is a 256 bit number.
There are many different hashing functions,
but Bitcoin uses SHA256 to create a unique hash value for each block on the blockchain.
The reason for this is to create
a unique identifier for every block that exists on the chain.
This allows us to do some cool things,
like references are blocked by its hash value.
It even creates the foundation from which we can join blocks together into a chain.
To understand how this builds the chain,
we'll need to understand blocks and blockchains a little better.
We'll learn more about these topics next.
But first, we'll walk through a demonstration showing SHA256 in action.